---
title: "ALS v0.7-beta10 is available in Russian"
lastmod: 2025-01-23T20:05:52Z

slug: 0.7-ru-preview
---

In the last few weeks, ALS seems to have raised interest in the Russian-speaking community.

We found the source: Mr. Eduard VAZHOROV, who published a very detailed guide about ALS on
[his blog](https://vazhorov.wordpress.com/). From there, the knowledge spread out.

Eduard VAZHOROV is a Russian amateur astronomer and professional web designer. He is best known for creating the
**Beginner's Star Atlas v.2**, a comprehensive sky atlas that plots stars up to the 7th magnitude and includes a variety
of deep-sky objects (DSOs). The atlas is [available for free](https://vazhorov.wordpress.com/2020/09/03/beginners-star-atlas-v2/).

In addition to his work on the star atlas, Eduard is also involved in astrophotography and astronomy journalism. He
shares his knowledge and passion for astronomy through his blog and social media, where he posts about his
astrophotography work, news, and updates from observatories in Russia.

In his guide on ALS, Eduard mentioned to his readers that the software was not translated into Russian.

We asked him if he would be interested in translating ALS into Russian. He was kind enough to accept and provided us with
a complete translation of the application.

Thank you, once again, and again again, to Mr. VAZHOROV for his work!

This Russian translation will be part of the final v0.7 release. In the meantime, you can already download preview
versions, equivalent to the v0.7-beta10, with the Russian language included.

---

**Download** the version that suits your operating system from [this page](https://als-app.org/nightlies/2025-01-19-cd17364f/).